[MUSIC]
Hello again, we've got Ben with us,
it's been a while since you've seen
his handsome face and heard his voice.
We're gonna do a bit of
an instructor hang out and
talk about some code architecture and
some deep stuff.
How you doing today Ben?
I am wonderful Rick,
despite speaking to you.
Thank you very much for asking.
>> Goodness me, what a charmer.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Okay, so
what we see on screen
here is our character.
We now have him doing some
pretty basic functionality.
>> I call him Mr Malacid because
of the speed he's moving at.
>> Don't worry upcoming videos will
make him a lot more snappy but
at the moment [SOUND] bump.
What should we look at first?
>> Well,
let's just make sure that
the flips bright code is clear.
So let's dive into the player script and
have a little look at the way
that we're doing this.
So basically this video, what I want
to ram home is the difference between
calculating something when you need it,
or caching or keeping a copy of it.
And I wanna say that for
us as beginners, we wanna make sure,
if we have a seesaw here and
we have a choice, between our code being
really kind of clean and
easy to read versus being performance,.
Then I'm holding a lot more
weight on the clean side.
So we're going for clean code, it's not
necessarily the fastest stuff around,
it doesn't matter at the moment,
it's plenty fast enough.
[CROSSTALK].
I believe it's called
a teeter-totter in North America.
>> A teeter-totter, okay,
well I call it a see-saw.
>> Yeah, or
in Canada at least that's for sure.
>> [LAUGH] But hey,
tomato, tomato, whatever.
[LAUGH]
>> So what I'm saying is
>> The thing is that if we've got a choice
of calculating something, and keeping
a copy of it, caching it, maybe for speed.
Remember that a weapons cache is like,
here's a massive supply centre,
here's the frontline of battle,
here are little weapons caches.
And we pull the weapons into the caches,
so that the little troops can use them.
We're going to avoid using caches for
now, because they are copies and
they are confusing.
So what we're doing here with this,
sprite flipping.
[CROSSTALK]
>> So when you, just to clarify Ben,
sorry to interrupt.
When you talk about we're
not going to use caching,
you're just talking about flipping
the sprite at the moment.
Cuz we're using caching throughout
this section, it's just this example.
>> Yeah, so in this case here,
this is a cache, right?
This is a cache of the rigidBody
component, we make ourself an instance
variable here, that the player instance
has a reference to the rigidBody.
We go find it on start,
caching it, this is a cache.
And then we use it wherever we use it
down here, etc, and here, and here, okay?
And it's because we use it
in multiple places that we
make it an instance variable, that's
why we out it at the top of the class.
So that from a scope point of
view it is available everywhere
>> But also the consequence of putting
anything up here as an instance variable,
is a cache.
It is you store something in it and then
that thing may or may not be necessary.
We could do this GetComponent Rigidbody
every time that we see my rigid body,
we could not use my rigid body.
And in this instance here we
could not use myRigidBody, but
rather use this
GetComponent RigidBody in there.
And we could do the same thing
everywhere that we see myRigidBody.
In fact you could literally do a find and
replace of myRigidBody with
GetComponent Rigidbody which is what
Rick's doing now, and it will still work.
What will happen is it will go and
get that component every
single time it needs to.
And it might be slow But I don't care.
I'm saying that on the teeter totter,
we're focusing on clean versus performing.
But it's actually the other point
is that this is easier to read.
It's easier to read myRigidBody than
it is to read all this stuff here.
So that's the main reason I'm caching it.
But we need to be aware
that this is a cache.
There is a performance difference between
getting something that's a component
right on this game object.
So we're currently on the player and
getting something on the player.
Compared to saying search through our
entire project to find something right.
>> Yep.
>> If we do a find object of type
it's going to be out there looking for
everything.
This is pretty quick.
This is probably pretty quick but
we don't care at the moment.
I'm mainly saying that it reads better.
So when we decide this code, it's like
that myRigidBody reads better but
it is a consequence.
What's the consequence of doing this?
I wonder if the students can
every think about what that is.
Well, the risk is as follow.
In fact, let's do it, let's play
the game and now at this moment,
this player instance has got
a reference to this rigid body right?
So from a code point of view,
the rigid body is set to that.
Now if you delete this component right?
Let's kill the rigid body
component altogether.
Just delete it at run time.
Now try and do something in the game,
click back in the game window and try and
move around.
And we're gonna get, if we look in the
console, we're gonna get a object of type
rigid body has been destroyed and
you're still trying to access it.
It's gonna get really upset with us, okay?
So this is the risk of the cache.
>> Because in here, we've already,
that's not as much of a problem as
what we're doing down here, right?
So it's saying,
I don't know where that is.
I can't find it, I can't find it.
>> Yeah, so we set that.
We set myRigidBody, it's valid.
We deleted myRigidBody.
Then here, we're assuming that myRigidBody
is still a reference to a RigidBody, and
it isn't anymore.
Now if you were to do this GetComponent
down here, you'd still have the same
error because it wouldn't be able
to find a RigidBody component.
Well you'd have a slightly
different error.
>> Right.
>> Rather than it saying hey, the thing
you were trying to access is destroyed,
it'll go I can't find a rigid body.
So either way,
it's not error-tolerant like this.
But I just wanna be, make you aware that
that's what's going on.
>> Yeah.
>> Anyway, little example of caching.
So let's move, now we'll talk about
the way that the flight sprite flips.
Just to reiterate that.
So if you just move the x up and
down Rick for a moment of the player.
Just drag the x value up and down.
>> Like that?
>> Just wanna make sure that we're clear
that if the x value is increasing
the velocity is to the right.
Rick's already covered this.
So therefore the sprite scale is positive.
Then if the velocity is decreasing i.e.
he's moving to the left so
if we do that for a sec.
We want him facing left and
facing left means we want this
sprint scale at a value of -1.
So if you just flip that around to -1 in
the inspector Rick so people can see.
So we could and we did in the prototype
briefly, over in the code, if we take
a look at the code, we did temporarily
store, and you'll see a lot of this on
the web when you go and look up people's
code, you'll see something like this.
Bool is facing right or
something like that, is facing right,
is what we used to have.
Okay, and you could say,
we don't care whether you
initialize it to true or false.
In fact, the fact that you don't know what
to initialize it to slightly worries me.
Because it's like when it doesn't have
a natural value in the beginning,
who knows which way he's facing.
So you could store whether
he's facing left or
right, calculate it somehow,
well how do you calculate it?
Well you're gonna calculate
it something like this.
If you stay still on the scroll for a
minute, we're gonna calculate it something
like that, which is, is my velocity
positive in the X direction or not.
If we are going right,
then this value will come out as +1, and
if we're going left this
value will come out as -1.
So if you're gonna calculate that to
work out whether you're facing right or
not, why store it?
Why not just calculate
it when you need it?
This is fast to do, just calculate it.
And then you don't have a risk that
your "is facing right" gets out of sync
with what direction
you're actually facing.
So the reason we've done this is to, in
one fell swoop, face the direction we're
actually moving at the moment
that we decide to do the flip.
No caching, no storing, nothing else.
So that's that.
There's another place that we
are also not caching here,
which is that whether the player has
horizontal speed, we rake a Boolean.
Why, by the way,
do we not just take this code and
stick it straight in those brackets?
Nothing to do with caching.
It's just readability.
That is the same calculation.
It's gonna do this calculation, boom, and
then use the result of
that calculation there.
What I'm doing here is attaching
meaning to the calculation.
This thing is fairly meaningless,
this thing on the right here, oops, God.
If you look at,
I'm struggling with my annotations,
let me just try again.
>> Yeah.
>> Just wait for it to clear,
there's a little delay [CROSSTALK]
>> Shove it in there.
>> That stuff that Rick's highlighting is
the same calculation as
when we do the boolean,
but when your brain tries
to read the code here,
what you're trying to do is tokenize this,
you're trying to say what does that mean?
And you have to think about it, or
you end up putting a comment in
that says what it does, even worse.
Because you can say a comment,
it says, if it is facing right or no.
Make a boolean that
says it's facing right.
Because if you then go and
change this maths,
my question is what is keeping you
honest to updating this comment.
What makes you update it?
Nothing properly keeps you honest.
So rather than saying if this is facing
right, just do the thing that is not gonna
slow the thing down or cause you
any problems, just make a boolean.
It's self commenting code.
This tells you what it does, now your
brain can focus on the if statement and
say if the player has horizontal speed,
and then if you really wanted to
go over the top you'd take this out
into another method and say flip sprite.
But you don't need to because
It's only one line of code, but
if you did several things when
he's got horizontal speed,
of course you would take all of this lot,
take it out into another method.
>> I think a similar conversation is when
we name variables such as i, or move,
out something that doesn't make any sense,
or v for velocity.
If we have that,
then who knows what that means.
And you absolutely will be coming back and
looking at your code in a couple of weeks
time and saying I don't even know what
this is supposed to do.
>> But
it's quicker to type I hear you ask.
Well that's rubbish, complete that to
velocity for a minute ready for example.
Use the IDE here.
And now, just delete that velocity and
then start retyping it.
But just keep the v.
Open brackets v.
Now because it knows about,
if we just go back to that once
more without hitting the Return,
because it knows about the context,
it knows about the scope of this variable,
hitting v already brings up velocity.
So you've got one extra key press.
With a small number of local variables.
Another reason to keep
the variables local, right?
It says the most likely thing that you're
trying to access here is the local
variable starting with V.
So you've got one extra key
press to go from V to velocity.
>> Dropping here then, if we hit V It's
not gonna go straight to velocity, is it?
>> No.
It's gonna find all sorts of stuff
that comes from the monobehavior.
So just use the IDE,
we're years away from when people used
to use, name things with single letters.
Use full, long, descriptive method names.
>> Yeah.
>> Not so long it's slow to read, but
really good point, Rick.
So, let me just check my list.
So why, caching this took for
a second, if we've got time.
Have we got time?
Yeah, I think we've got a few minutes.
Let's talk for
a second about caching versus calculating.
So some of you who know a little bit more
about this, if you bring up that webpage
Rick, might say, well this is all
very well calculating as you go.
Back in the days when processes
>> Were of a similar speed,
if you just stay still for a sec,
were of a similar speed to memory.
Then it's okay to just,
it doesn't really make any difference.
You calculate, you store,
it doesn't matter.
These days, processors are really really
fast, which might make you just say hey,
I should just calculate
everything when I need it.
But the problem is that memory, and
memory bandwidth, is very slow.
So if you store stuff in memory,
it's really slow to go and get it.
So you need to think that these days
actually the most expensive thing to do
is go to memory.
It depends entirely on the platform
you're working on, the environment you're
working in, and all sorts else.
>> But it just reinforces my point,
that to calculate is absolutely fine.
Your little CPU is sitting there with
loads of calls on it all going a billion
times a second.
They can calculate which way to
flip that play very, very fast.
If you go and store that in memory,
it could take an age from a process to
the point of many, many hundreds of
nanoseconds to go and get back [CROSSTALK]
>> Now it's probably people sitting there
thinking is that the same on mobile.
Are we seeing the same processor
memory gap on mobile devices.
>> Yeah, broadly
>> Broadly, broadly the same.
>> Yep, yep, cool.
>> Okay, so there you go, that's that.
So basically if you don't cache it if
you can calculate it is the thing to
take home.
Keeps you toy your code more functional,
which means it just does something when it
needs it and then calculates the result.
Makes life a lot easier,
removes bugs, all good.
So hopefully, that's a helpful hang out.
If you like these hang outs,
I don't know what you can do.
How can they reward us for liking that?
You can leave us another five star review.
You could buy all of our other courses.
You could say, thanks very much,
both on the community side and
in the [INAUDIBLE] Q and A Yeah.
That would do.
>> And
most importantly you can finish your game.
Put them out there.
And make amazing games
that we can play and
enjoy as well.
>> That's it.
That's it.
And then we fullfill anyways,
it's been nice to chat with you guys.
>> See you guys.
>> I'll leave you in his capable hands.
Back into it!
Back into the course!
Let's get cracking and make some cool
functionality in the next few videos.
Get our player jumping and
climbing up ladders.
>> Yeah, and as you can see these are not
rehearsed these hangouts,
in fact we didn't rehearse this at all.
And that's half the point of them you're
hanging out with us rather then us being
all stiff and collared, although I am
a little stiff and collared, but anyway.